Being a technology professional means always keeping your technical skillset sharp so you can remain marketable for prospective employers and clients. As my career has evolved over the years I’ve gained exposure to several technologies I enjoy working with but none more than — -scripting! It wasn’t until I began to leverage the power of scripting at work that I saw my value as a Systems Engineer gain more value than with any other technology I’ve worked with before. Scripting has presented opportunities to allow time and effort to be saved for both myself and fellow team members, prevent potential outages that have saved the company lots of money and presented job and networking opportunities I otherwise would have never had come my way had I not put forth the effort to teach myself how to use scripting languages.

I once landed a role due to a former colleague of mine putting in a referral for me to his manager where they were seeking a Windows Engineer with knowledge of Powershell scripting who was willing to get more exposure in a DevOps environment and support their developer community within the organization. This right up my alley and the perfect opportunity for me to leverage a skill I worked so hard to learn! If was after starting this role that I was able to use my scripting skillset regularly. It wasn’t long before I started building relationships with developers in the company that I realized there was somewhat of a sub culture in the development community that I never experienced as a Systems Engineer on the infrastructure or operations side of the house.

I noted that in this environment, among others where I supported developers, that there was a strong sense of collaboration, projects moved relatively fast, developers were allowed to work remote from home often and several of the developers outside of work had some kind of side hustle or business. These side hustles or businesses included but weren’t limited to building web sites for small businesses, doing freelance work on sites like [Upwork](https://www.upwork.com) and [Fiverr](https://www.fiverr.com/) just to name a few. I say all this to bring up the question of “What do I want to do with code”?

It didn’t take long to get my mental wheels spinning before I realized that there’s more out there than building servers, working with Microsoft technologies and supporting developers. I’ve been in somewhat of an ongoing learning mode ever since and often find myself wondering where to begin with learning to code. I explored such sites as [FreeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/map) I began to listen to podcasts like “[Code Newbie](https://www.codenewbie.org/)" and “[Learn to Code with Me](https://learntocodewith.me/)". I started using tools like [Feedly](https://feedly.com) to track blog posts related to learning how to develop. My intent behind these actions was to have my expectations set for what I could expect if I decided to take my career on a trip down “Developer” lane. I have to say that what I’ve learned so far is that building an exemplary developer skillset appears to be no easy task and will take some time to find the skillset “stack” best suited for me — I’m always up for a challenge so sign me up!

In a continued effort to find my entry point in the developer space and determine what technologies and languages would be best suited to compliment my System Engineering background, I stumble onto a website called [VetsWhoCode](http://vetswhocode.io/). As looked through the site and started to validate my eyes lit up like a kid at Christmas! This was it! My opportunity to learn to develop and as an added bonus join a community of accountability partners looking to do the same. I have to admit I began to lose hope after applying to be considered a candidate for the program. That all changed when I received an e-mail from the organizations founder [Jerome Hardaway](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeromehardaway/) former NBA superstar and Olympic gold medalist…wait, sorry about that, wrong Hardaway! Still a superstar nonetheless for the profound effort he’s put into a program to encourage former and active military veterans to learn the skills needed to successfully enter the technology market as a developer.

I wasn’t surprised to find out a face-to-face interview via Skype was required in order to be considered a candidate for this program and thought my skillset and 18 years of experience would make me a great student candidate. I was, however, surprised about his response that this program might be too easy or bore me! The interview quickly changed from him gathering more information about me as a candidate to me convincing him that this wouldn’t be a waste of his time nor mine. I have to say I’ve never been in an interview of any kind where I felt I had to justify myself more than this one but this was an opportunity I could NOT let pass me by!!!! It wasn’t long after our interview that he reached out to me with the code challenge, which was really difficult for me, but was enough to get me accepted.

After completing this program my goal is to grow and round out my skillset as a true DevOps or BackendDev Engineer (or maybe ease into Web Development) and eventually tap into my entrepreneurial spirit and see what problems I can solve in the private sector with code.